6-0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Georgie. Neil, we're talking about protein today.
What type of protein do you usually eat?
Well, I like all kinds of proteins fish, but a chicken, but I think
I really like an egg. And egg is my favourite kind of protein
Oh, I was going to say that too. I'm a big fan of breakfast foods and eggs are my favourite.
Well, you can't beat a good breakfast. Of all the main food groups such as
Carbohydrate, Fat and Fiber, it's protein that seems to be most in the news.
In shops and on social media, you'll find all kinds of high protein foods being advertised
From shakes and yoghurt to chocolate. Here's Ruth Alexander, presenter of BBC World
Service Program, The Food Chain.
Cast your eye over most dials in the supermarket now and you'll see high protein products in abundance.
Pasta made with lentils and chickpeas rather than weep flower.
Bread fortified with beans and pulses.
Ruth casts her eye over the supermarket shelves.
If you cast your eye over something, you take a quick look at it.
What she sees are protein products in abundance.
In other words, in large quantities. Products which already contain protein, like yoghurt,
are repackaged as high protein.
While other items have extra protein added, often in the form of beans and pulses.
Protein is big business.
Our bodies need protein for health and to build muscle.
But with all this focus on protein, are we forgetting about other important nutrients such as fiber?
That's what we'll be discussing in this program, hearing some useful new words and phrases.
But first, I have a question for you, Georgie.
The popularity of protein started with body builders and people working out in gyms who at extra protein to gain muscle.
Irishman Patrick Callahan is a big name in the protein muscle world.
But do you know who he is?
Is he A, the owner of a company which makes protein shakes?
B, the winner of the 2024 Mr. Universe Bodybuilding Contest, or C, the scientist who discovered a new protein in outer space.
Ooh, I'm going to say, Patrick Callahan is the winner of the 2024 Mr. Universe Bodybuilding Contest.
Okay, we'll find out if you're right at the end.
Marketing campaigns that promote sales of high protein food are certainly working.
Sales of protein products make around £7 billion globally.
Here's Scott Dicker from Spins, a market research company in Chicago talking with BBC program The Food Chain.
So sometimes carbs are good, sometimes they're bad for consumers, sometimes fat is good, sometimes it's bad for consumers.
But protein seems to have this continuous health halo on it.
Unlike carbs, that's carbohydrates and fat.
Consumers don't see any downside to eating protein.
Scott says protein has a health halo, a marketing term which describes perceiving a food to be healthy based on a single feature, such as being organic, gluten-free, or in this case, high protein.
Even if it's overall nutritional value is poor.
Yes, food which used to be considered unhealthy is now called healthy, just because a spoonful of protein powder has been added.
So could our modern obsession with protein mean that we ignore other important food groups like fiber.
NHS surgeon and blogger Dr. Karen Rajen thinks so and explains why here to Ruth Alexander on BBC World Service program The Food Chain.
And do you think we're paying enough attention to fiber?
Probably not. I think the tide is turning and there's more people interested in fiber and optimizing their fiber intake and fiber maxing even to trend on TikTok.
What is fiber maxing?
Fiber maxing is, you know, as it suggests, similar to the protein maxing trend where people are trying to maximize their fiber intake with little hacks or tricks or tips that they could do, whether it's, you know, adding certain seeds or nuts to snacks.
Many people pay more attention to protein than fiber in their diet, but Dr. Karen thinks the tide is turning, an idiom which means that things are changing.
In part, this is thanks to a new trend from America called fiber maxing, consuming lots of fiber by eating fiber rich foods and supplements for their health benefits.
Dr. Karen also gives some hacks, good solutions or pieces of advice to help boost your fiber intake, for example adding seeds and nuts to meals.
In fact, the healthiest diet is probably a balanced diet, one containing items from all the major food groups, but I'm still intrigued by your question, Neil, isn't it time you reveal the answer?
I asked you who the Irishman Patrick Callahan was.
And I said he was the winner of the Mr Universe contest.
And you were? Correct.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this episode.
If you cast your eye over something, you have a quick look at it.
If something is in abundance, there's a lot or more than enough of it.
A health halo refers to overestimating how healthy an item is based on a single feature such as being low in calories, gluten free or high in protein.
The idiom the tide is turning means that things are changing.
Friend fiber maxing means people intentionally consume lots of fiber by using fiber rich foods and supplements for their health benefits.
And finally, a hack is a good solution or piece of advice.
Once again, our six minutes are up.
But here's another hack for you.
Remember you can find work sheets, quizzes and loads more resources to improve your English over on our website.
BBCLearningEnglish.com.
See you there soon, but for now it's goodbye.
Goodbye.
Six minutes English from BBCLearningEnglish.com.